Add Astro component definitions to overview page (#2915)
astronomer/docs: astro/astro-architecture.md

    - You need private networking support.
    - You want to use a specific cloud provider or region.
    - You need to run Airflow environments in separate clusters for business or security reasons.

You can work with Astro using the [Cloud UI](#cloud-ui), the [Astro CLI](#astro-cli), or the Astro API. Your Airflow environments on Astro, called [Deployments](#deployment), securely connect to external data services, so that you can place Airflow at the core of your data ecosystem. The _Astro Hypervisor_ is an Astronomer-managed component of the Astro platform that facilitates operating and optimizing your Deployments. 

![Astro Hosted architecture overview](/img/docs/astro-architecture-lightmode.png)

## Key concepts

Astro includes tools and features that enable you to enrich your Airflow development and maintenance experience beyond the functionality that open source Airflow provides. 

The following sections give a detailed explaination of key concepts that you need to understand in order to work with Airflow on Astro. You can find definitions for additional Astro-specific terminology in the [Astro glossary](astro-glossary.md). 

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

---
sidebar_label: 'About Astro'
title: 'About Astro'
id: astro-architecture
description: Learn about how Astro is structured to maximize the power of Apache Airflow.
---

Astro is a fully-managed SaaS application for data orchestration that helps teams run data pipelines with Apache Airflow at any level of scale. Your Airflow infrastructure is managed entirely by Astronomer, enabling you to shift your focus from infrastructure to data. 

This document provides an overview of the Astro architecture and key features that you use to make the most of Astro. See [Astro Features](features.md) to learn more about available Astro functionality. To get started with Astro, see [Start a trial](trial.md).

## Architecture

> Astro is built to simplify, streamline, and optimize Airflow so you can customize the parts of your Airflow implementation that matter most to you, with Astro taking care of the rest. Whether you use Astro to power internal analytics or to train machine learning models, becoming familiar with how Astro works can make it easier for you to also manage users, allocate compute resources, secure connections, and set up CI/CD deployments. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Astro is built to simplify, streamline, and optimize Airflow so you can customize the parts of your Airflow implementation that matter most to you, with Astro taking care of the rest. Whether you use Astro to power internal analytics or to train machine learning models, becoming familiar with how Astro works can also make it easier for you to manage users, allocate compute resources, secure connections, and set up CI/CD deployments. 
```

> Astro is built to simplify, streamline, and optimize Airflow so you can customize the parts of your Airflow implementation that matter most to you, with Astro taking care of the rest. Whether you use Astro to power internal analytics or to train machine learning models, becoming familiar with how Astro works can also make it easier for you to manage users, allocate compute resources, secure connections, and set up CI/CD deployments. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Astro is built to both simplify and optimize Airflow so you can customize the parts of your environment that matter most to you, with Astro taking care of the rest. Whether you use Astro to power internal analytics or to train machine learning models, becoming familiar with how Astro works can help you decide which deployment and connectivity model work best for you and enable your team to start running DAGs.
```

> You can work with Astro using the [Cloud UI](#cloud-ui), the [Astro CLI](#astro-cli), or the Astro API. Your Airflow environments on Astro, called [Deployments](#deployment), securely connect to external data services, so that you can place Airflow at the core of your data ecosystem. The _Astro Hypervisor_ is an Astronomer-managed component of the Astro platform that facilitates operating and optimizing your Deployments. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can work with Astro using the [Cloud UI](#cloud-ui) in your web browser, the [Astro CLI](#astro-cli) in your terminal or as part of a CI/CD process, or the Astro API. Astro makes it easy for Airflow environments, called [Deployments](#deployment), to securely connect to external data services. The _Astro Hypervisor_ is an Astronomer-managed component of the Astro platform that facilitates scaling and optimizing the infrastructure that powers your Deployments. 
```

To run Airflow on Astro, you need to create a [Deployment](#deployment) using either of these two options:

> - **Use a Standard cluster**: This is the default and the quickest way to get Airflow environment up and running on Astro. Standard cluster is a pre-configured multi-tenant Kubernetes cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Use a Standard cluster**: This is the default and the quickest way to get an Airflow environment up and running on Astro. A standard cluster is a multi-tenant cluster managed by Astronomer where you can create Deployments with minimal configuration needed. Astro supports standard clusters on Amazon Web Services (AWS) and Google Cloud Platform (GCP). Support for Microsoft Azure is coming soon.
```

- **Use a Dedicated cluster**: It is a single-tenant Kubernetes cluster dedicated to your team or organization. Choose this option if:
    - You need private networking support.

>     - You want to use a specific cloud provider or region.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - You want to use a specific cloud provider or region that is not supported on standard clusters.
```

    - You need to run Airflow environments in separate clusters for business or security reasons.

![Astro Hosted architecture overview](/img/docs/astro-architecture-lightmode.png)

## Key concepts

> Astro includes tools and features that enable you to enrich your Airflow development and maintenance experience beyond the functionality that open source Airflow provides. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Astro includes tools and features that enrich your Airflow experience beyond the functionality that open source Airflow provides.
```

> The following sections give a detailed explaination of key concepts that you need to understand in order to work with Airflow on Astro. You can find definitions for additional Astro-specific terminology in the [Astro glossary](astro-glossary.md). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following sections give a detailed explanation of key concepts that you need to understand in order to work with Astro. You can find definitions for additional Astro-specific terminology in the [Astro glossary](astro-glossary.md). 
```

### Astro CLI

> The [Astro CLI](cli/overview.md) tool provides an interface to run Airflow locally and deploy Airflow files to Astro from either a local machine or a CI/CD process. The Astro CLI is open source and requires either Docker or an alternative container management tool, like Podman.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The [Astro CLI](cli/overview.md) provides an interface to test Airflow DAGs locally, deploy code to Astro, and automate key actions as part of CI/CD processes. The Astro CLI is open source and requires either Docker or an alternative container management tool, like Podman.
```

> An Airflow project created with the Astro CLI is also known as an _Astro project_. It contains the set of files necessary to run Airflow, including dedicated folders for your DAG files, plugins, and dependencies. See [Run your first DAG with the Astro CLI](create-first-dag.md) to create your first Astro project locally.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An Airflow project created with the Astro CLI is also known as an _Astro project_. It contains the set of files necessary to run Airflow, including dedicated folders for your DAG files, Python packages, utility files, and more. Astronomer recommends that you create a dedicated Git repository for each Astro project. To run a DAG, you add the DAG to your Astro project and deploy your Astro project to Astro.

See [Run your first DAG with the Astro CLI](create-first-dag.md) to create your first Astro project.
```

### Cloud UI

> The Cloud UI, hosted at `https://cloud.astronomer.io`, is the primary interface for accessing and managing Astro from your web browser. It provides you a serverless Airflow experience from a single screen. You can use the Cloud UI to:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Cloud UI, hosted at `https://cloud.astronomer.io`, is the primary interface for accessing and managing Astro from your web browser. You can use the Cloud UI to:
```

> - Access the Airflow UI for your hosted Airflow environments.
> - Customize Airflow resources without editing configuration files.
> - Allocate infrastructure resources to your Airflow environment.
> - Manage users and teams with role-based access control (RBAC).
> - Create and edit DAGs in the Astro Cloud IDE.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Manage users, teams, and permissions.
- Create and configure Deployments, including infrastructure resources and compute.
- View all of your organization's Deployments, DAGs, and tasks in a single place.
- Monitor the health of your Airflow environments with a variety of alerts, logs, and analytics interfaces.
- Stay up to date with the latest Astro features.
- Create and edit DAGs in the Astro Cloud IDE.
```

description: Learn about how Astro is structured to maximize the power of Apache Airflow.
---

Astro is a fully-managed SaaS application for data orchestration that helps teams run data pipelines with Apache Airflow at any level of scale. Your Airflow infrastructure is managed entirely by Astronomer, enabling you to shift your focus from infrastructure to data. 

## General architecture

There are two ways to run Astro:

> - With a multi-tenant standard cluster, which is the default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- With a multi-tenant standard cluster. (Default)
```

- With a single-tenant dedicated cluster.

> You can interact with Astro using the [Cloud UI](#cloud-ui), the [Astro CLI](#astro-cli) or the Astro API. Your Airflow environments on Astro, called [Deployments](#deployment), can securely connect to external data services so that you can place Airflow at the heart of your data ecosystem.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can work with Astro using the [Cloud UI](#cloud-ui), the [Astro CLI](#astro-cli), or the Astro API. Your Airflow environments on Astro, called [Deployments](#deployment), securely connect to external data services, so that you can place Airflow at the core of your data ecosystem.
```

I like at the heart, but I think it might technically be a colloquialism. Core is kind of the metaphorical equivalent, but it doesn't sound as nice :/

![Astro Hosted architecture overview](/img/docs/architecture-overview.png)

## Astro concepts and components

> While many concepts in Astro are similar to open source Airflow, some Astro concepts are specific to the platform. The Astro ecosystem also includes of tools that enable you to interact with Astro and enrich your development and maintenance experience. The following topics explain these concepts and introduce the tools:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While many concepts in Astro are similar to open source Airflow, some Astro concepts are specific to the platform. The Astro ecosystem also includes tools that enable you to interact with Astro and enrich your development and maintenance experience. The following topics explain these concepts and introduce the tools:
```

> While many concepts in Astro are similar to open source Airflow, some Astro concepts are specific to the platform. The Astro ecosystem also includes of tools that enable you to interact with Astro and enrich your development and maintenance experience. The following topics explain these concepts and introduce the tools:

Reviewer 2: Weird sentence here

> While many concepts in Astro will be familiar to users of open source Airflow, there are some Astro concepts that are specific to the platform. The Astro ecosystem also consists of tools that enable you to interact with Astro and enrich your development and maintenance experience. The following topics explain these concepts and introduce the tools.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While many concepts in Astro are similar to open source Airflow, some Astro concepts are specific to the platform. The Astro ecosystem also includes of tools that enable you to interact with Astro and enrich your development and maintenance experience. The following topics explain these concepts and introduce the tools:
```
Awesome paragraph. My edits are really just little copyedit things 👍

### Astro CLI

> The [Astro CLI](cli/overview.md) is the primary interface for running Airflow locally and deploying Airflow files to Astro from a local machine or a CI/CD process. The Astro CLI is open source and requires either Docker or an alternative container management tool.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [Astro CLI](cli/overview.md) is the primary interface for running Airflow locally and deploying Airflow files to Astro from either a local machine or a CI/CD process. The Astro CLI is open source and requires either Docker or an alternative container management tool, like Podman.
```

> An Airflow project created with the Astro CLI is also known as an _Astro project_. It contains the set of files necessary to run Airflow, including dedicated folders for your DAG files, plugins, and dependencies. See [Run your first DAG with the Astro CLI](first-dag-cli.md) to create your first Astro project locally.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An Airflow project created with the Astro CLI is also known as an _Astro project_. It contains the set of files necessary to run Airflow, including dedicated folders for your DAG files, plugins, and dependencies. See [Run your first DAG with the Astro CLI](first-dag-cli.md) to create your first Astro project locally.
```

> An Airflow project created with the Astro CLI is also known as an _Astro project_. It contains the set of files necessary to run Airflow, including dedicated folders for your DAG files, plugins, and dependencies. See [Run your first DAG](create-first-dag.md) to create your first Astro project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An Airflow project created with the Astro CLI is also known as an _Astro project_. It contains the set of files necessary to run Airflow, including dedicated folders for your DAG files, plugins, and dependencies. See [Run your first DAG with the Astro CLI](first-dag-cli.md) to create your first Astro project locally.
```
This change is coming from https://github.com/astronomer/docs/pull/2867/files

### Cloud UI

> The Cloud UI, hosted at `https://cloud.astronomer.io`, is the visual interface for accessing and managing Astro. It provides you a serverless Airflow experience from a single screen. You can use the Cloud UI to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Cloud UI, hosted at `https://cloud.astronomer.io`, is the remote interface for accessing and managing Astro. It provides you a serverless Airflow experience from a single screen. You can use the Cloud UI to:
```

Reviewer 2: *primary
*from your web browser

- Access the Airflow UI for your hosted Airflow environments.
- Customize Airflow resources without editing configuration files.
- Allocate infrastructure resources to your Airflow environment.
- Manage users and teams with role-based access control (RBAC).
- Create and edit DAGs in the Astro Cloud IDE.

### Deployment

An Astro _Deployment_ is an Airflow environment hosted on Astro. It encompasses all core Airflow components, including the Airflow webserver, scheduler, and workers, along with additional tools for reliability and observability. It runs in an isolated Kubernetes namespace in an [Astro cluster](#cluster) and has a set of attached resources to run your Airflow tasks.

> Compared to an open source Airflow environment, an Astro Deployment is easy to create, delete, and modify. You can [fine-tune resources and settings](deployment-settings.md) directly from the Cloud UI, see metrics and analytics for your DAGs, review your deploy history, and more. The infrastructure required to run a Deployment is managed by Astronomer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Compared to an open source Airflow environment, an Astro Deployment is easy to create, delete, and modify through the Cloud UI or with the Astro CLI. You can [fine-tune resources and settings](deployment-settings.md) directly from the Cloud UI, see metrics and analytics for your DAGs, review your deploy history, and more. The infrastructure required to run a Deployment is managed by Astronomer.
```

To run DAGs in a Deployment, you must either deploy an Astro project manually from your local machine or configure an automated deploy process using a third-party CI/CD tool with the Astro CLI. Then, you can open the Airflow UI from the Cloud UI and view your DAGs. See [Run your first DAG](create-first-dag.md) to get started.

### Astro Runtime

_Astro Runtime_ is a [debian-based Docker image](https://quay.io/repository/astronomer/astro-runtime) that bundles Apache Airflow with optimized configurations and add-ons that make your Airflow experience reliable, fast, and scalable. Astronomer releases an Astro Runtime distribution for each version of Apache airflow.

> Every Deployment and Astro project uses Astro Runtime at its core. Astronomer provides [extended support and bug fixes](runtime-version-lifecycle-policy.md) to Astro Runtime versions so that you can keep your DAGs running for longer without disruption.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Every Deployment and Astro project uses Astro Runtime at its core. Astronomer provides [extended support and bug fixes](runtime-version-lifecycle-policy.md) to Astro Runtime versions, so that you can keep your DAGs running for longer without disruption.
```

See [Astro Runtime Architecture and features](runtime-image-architecture.md) for a complete feature list.

### Workspace

A _Workspace_ is a collection of Deployments that can be accessed by a specific group of users. You can use a Workspace to group Deployments that share a business use case or environment trait. For example, your data science team might have a dedicated Workspace with two Deployments within it. Workspaces don't require any resources to run and are only an abstraction for grouping Deployments and configuring user access to them. All Deployments must belong to a Workspace.

> When more users from your company join Astro, you can assign them [Workspace roles](user-permissions.md#workspace-roles) that include varying levels of access to your Deployments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can assign new users [Workspace roles](user-permissions.md#workspace-roles) that include varying levels of access to your Deployments.
```

### Cluster

> A _cluster_ on Astro is a Kubernetes cluster that hosts the infrastructure required to run Airflow environments, also known as [Deployments](#deployment) in Astro. You can either use a pre-configured cluster, known as a standard cluster, or create a cluster for exclusive use by your team, known as a [dedicated cluster](create-dedicated-cluster.md). For both cluster types, Astro manages all underlying infrastructure and provides secure connectivity options to all data services in your ecosystem.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A _cluster_ on Astro is a Kubernetes cluster that hosts the infrastructure required to run Airflow environments, also known as [Deployments](#deployment) in Astro. You can either use a pre-configured cluster, called a standard cluster, or create a cluster for exclusive use by your team, called a [dedicated cluster](create-dedicated-cluster.md). For both cluster types, Astro manages all underlying infrastructure and provides secure connectivity options to all data services in your ecosystem.
```

description: Learn about how Astro is structured to maximize the power of Apache Airflow.
---

Astro is a fully-managed SaaS application for data orchestration that helps teams run data pipelines with Apache Airflow at any level of scale. Your Airflow infrastructure is managed entirely by Astronomer, enabling you to shift your focus from infrastructure to data. 

## General architecture

To run Airflow on Astro, you need to create a [Deployment](#deployment) using either of these two options:

- **Use a Standard cluster**: This is the default and the quickest way to get Airflow environment up and running on Astro. Standard cluster is a pre-configured multi-tenant Kubernetes cluster.

- **Use a Dedicated cluster**: It is a single-tenant Kubernetes cluster dedicated to your team or organization. Choose this option if:
    - You need private networking support.
    - You want to use a specific cloud provider or region.
    - You need to run Airflow environments in separate clusters for business or security reasons.

> You can work with Astro using the [Cloud UI](#cloud-ui), the [Astro CLI](#astro-cli), or the Astro API. Your Airflow environments on Astro, called [Deployments](#deployment), securely connect to external data services, so that you can place Airflow at the core of your data ecosystem.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can work with Astro using the [Cloud UI](#cloud-ui), the [Astro CLI](#astro-cli), or the Astro API. Your Airflow environments on Astro, called [Deployments](#deployment), securely connect to external data services, so that you can place Airflow at the core of your data ecosystem. The **Astro Hypervisor** is an Astronomer-managed component that facilitates operating and optimizing your Deployments. 
```

> ![Astro Hosted architecture overview](/img/docs/astro-architecture-lightmode.png)

Reviewer: Apply black border

## Key concepts

While many concepts in Astro are similar to open source Airflow, some Astro concepts are specific to the platform. The Astro ecosystem also includes tools that enable you to interact with Astro and enrich your development and maintenance experience. The following topics explain these concepts and introduce the tools:

### Astro CLI

> The [Astro CLI](cli/overview.md) is the primary interface for running Airflow locally and deploying Airflow files to Astro from either a local machine or a CI/CD process. The Astro CLI is open source and requires either Docker or an alternative container management tool, like Podman.

Reviewer: We refer to two things as primary interfaces. Should just call them interfaces

### Cloud UI

The Cloud UI, hosted at `https://cloud.astronomer.io`, is the primary interface for accessing and managing Astro from your web browser. It provides you a serverless Airflow experience from a single screen. You can use the Cloud UI to:

- Access the Airflow UI for your hosted Airflow environments.
- Customize Airflow resources without editing configuration files.
- Allocate infrastructure resources to your Airflow environment.
- Manage users and teams with role-based access control (RBAC).
- Create and edit DAGs in the Astro Cloud IDE.

### Deployment

An Astro _Deployment_ is an Airflow environment hosted on Astro. It encompasses all core Airflow components, including the Airflow webserver, scheduler, and workers, along with additional tools for reliability and observability. It runs in an isolated Kubernetes namespace in an [Astro cluster](#cluster) and has a set of attached resources to run your Airflow tasks.

> Compared to an open source Airflow environment, an Astro Deployment is easy to create, delete, and modify through the Cloud UI or with the Astro CLI. You can [fine-tune resources and settings](deployment-settings.md) directly from the Cloud UI, see metrics and analytics for your DAGs, review your deploy history, and more. The infrastructure required to run a Deployment is managed by Astronomer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Compared to an open source Airflow environment, an Astro Deployment is easy to create, delete, and modify through either the Cloud UI or with the Astro CLI. You can [fine-tune resources and settings](deployment-settings.md) directly from the Cloud UI, see metrics and analytics for your DAGs, review your deploy history, and more. The infrastructure required to run a Deployment is managed by Astronomer.
```

For both cluster types, Astro manages all underlying infrastructure and provides secure connectivity options to all data services in your ecosystem.

### Organization

An Astro _Organization_ is the highest level entity in Astro and represents a shared space for your company on Astro. An Organization is automatically created when you first sign up for Astronomer. At the Organization level, you can manage all of your users, Deployments, Workspaces, and clusters from a single place in the Cloud UI. 

To securely manage user access, you can [integrate your Organization with an identity provider (IdP)](configure-idp.md) and [set up SCIM provisioning](set-up-scim-provisioning.md) to have new users automatically join Astro with the correct permissions. 

## Access control architecture

Astro implements role-based access control (RBAC) for Airflow environments.

> Each Astro user has a Workspace role in each Workspace they belong to, plus a single Organization role. Users can also belong to [Teams](manage-teams.md), which apply the same role across a group of users. You can create API tokens with specific roles to automate most actions on Astro, such as deploying code or managing users. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each Astro user has a Workspace role in every Workspace they belong to, plus a single Organization role. Users can also belong to [Teams](manage-teams.md), which apply the same role across a group of users. You can create API tokens with specific roles to automate most actions on Astro, such as deploying code or managing users. 
```

For both cluster types, Astro manages all underlying infrastructure and provides secure connectivity options to all data services in your ecosystem.

### Organization

An Astro _Organization_ is the highest level entity in Astro and represents a shared space for your company on Astro. An Organization is automatically created when you first sign up for Astronomer. At the Organization level, you can manage all of your users, Deployments, Workspaces, and clusters from a single place in the Cloud UI. 

To securely manage user access, you can [integrate your Organization with an identity provider (IdP)](configure-idp.md) and [set up SCIM provisioning](set-up-scim-provisioning.md) to have new users automatically join Astro with the correct permissions. 

## Access control architecture

> Astro implements role-based access control (RBAC) for Airflow environments.

Reviewer: Reword about what this is and why does it matter.
